# Compiler Generator

## Objective of the Project

 - developing a suitable Syntax Directed Translation Scheme to convert Java code to Java bytecode, performing necessary lexical, syntax and static semantic analysis (such  as  type checking and Expressions Evaluation). 
 
 - Generated bytecode must follow the standard bytecode instructions defined in Java Virtual Machine 
Specification: 
    - http://java.sun.com/docs/books/jvms/second_edition/html/VMSpecTOC.doc.html 

    - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Java_bytecode

--- 
### **For this Project, we have worked mainly on 2 Generators:** 
- Lexaical Analyzer Generator tool
- Syntax Analyzer Generator tool (Parser Generator)


**For the Lexical Analyzer:**

 - The Generator automatically constructs a lexical analyzer from a regular expression description of a set of tokens. The tool constructs a nondeterministic finite automata (NFA) for the given regular expressions, combines these NFAs together with a new starting state, converts the resulting NFA to a DFA, minimizes it and emit the transition table for the reduced DFA together with a lexical analyzer program that simulates the resulting DFA machine. 
 
 - The generated lexical analyzer read its input one character at a time, until it finds the longest 
prefix of the input, which matches one of the given regular expressions. It creates a symbol 
table and insert each identifier in the table. If more than one regular expression matches some longest prefix of the input, the lexical analyzer breaks the tie in favor of the regular expression listed first in the regular specifications. If a match exists, the lexical analyzer produces the token class and the attribute value. If none of the regular expressions matches any input prefix, an 
error recovery routine is called to print an error message and to continue looking for tokens. 



**For the Syntax Analyzer (Parser Generator):**

 - We designed and implemented an LL (1) parser generator tool.

 - The parser generator expects an LL (1) grammar as input. It computes First and Follow sets and uses them to construct a predictive parsing table for the grammar.

 - The table is used to drive a predictive top-down parser. If the input grammar is not LL (1), an appropriate error message is produced.

 - The generated parser produces a descriptive representation of the leftmost derivation for a correct input. 

 - If an error is encountered, a panic-mode error recovery routine is called to print an error message and resume parsing. 







